

*Edit (2016-01-14): Minor grammar/typographic/semantic fixes throughout. Also
note that this was written in 2014, so it may not reflect current knowledge and
events, and it most definitely does not accurately reflect my views anymore on
several of the topics it addresses.*

---

**Summary:** Don't fight to elevate yourself ‒ that is why our society is
in shackles. You can be wrong, just as your opponents can be. Fight to put
people in their place ‒ that can and will resolve virtually any conflict
in the world.

---

We all know that our society has it's fair share of issues. From all the
violence against homosexuals to violence and vicious legal battles being waged
against right-to-work proponents and opponents to abortion, it seems like our
society has come to a moral crumble. Greed seems rampant, especially given the
media and all of its "wisdom", and even the news media itself is becoming rather
biased in general, generally refusing to give legitimate coverage of much of
anything that is actually good or supports the views of its managers.

The root of all these issues may seem like a few people being greedy and/or
self-righteous. There are plenty of examples of these problems, and here's a
list of some, not intended to be comprehensive or complete:

- Attacks being committed against homosexuals (self-righteous)

- Union agents attacking workers, both legally and violently (greedy)

- Obama using the IRS to target political opponents (greedy, self-righteous)

- Corporations fighting for ability to control bandwidth to specific sites
  (greedy)

- Some people in Congress fighting for Internet censorship (greedy,
  self-righteous)

- Abortion proponents fighting for required insurance coverage of it, including
  by institutions religiously opposed to it (self-righteous)

- White House supporting NSA activities, in disagreement with the rest of
  America and the world (greedy)

That is just on the surface. All these have something even more basic as a
common root. That root is the "greater than thou" mindset.

This mindset is nothing new. Before I go on to explain how that is with current
issues, here's a couple past examples:

- In the Civil Rights Era, both blacks and whites had the "better than you"
  mindset. It hadn't shown itself very well during the time of Martin Luther
  King, Jr., since he had guided everyone to practice nonviolent protest, civil
  disobedience, and peaceful petition. Both before he gained his influence and
  after he passed, there were relatively frequent riots started by both blacks
  and whites. This definitely came from people of all colors thinking they are
  better than the other group.

- In the era of women's suffrage, many men had tried so hard to stop it, and on
  multiple occasions, they had rioted violently against the activists. Some of
  the men had sided with the women, but they were constantly ridiculed not too
  far off of how several anti-gays ridicule straight supporters of gay rights.
  Some of the suffrage activists had let the movement get into their head, and
  started getting hostile on occasion to the men themselves. What it took for
  the male opponents to concede was the idea of them being able to convince
  their wives to vote for specific people on their whim. Both the men against
  the movement and several of the women part of the movement had the common
  notion of being "greater than thou".

Now, here is how that mindset translates to today:

- The "pro-marriage" people strongly support marriage only being between people
  of the same sex. Every person in that group sees homosexual relationships as
  wrong, and many of them believe they should make sure everyone else believe
  the same thing, not always in a peaceful way. Several people in this group
  also literally hate gays, in the same sense many Nazis literally hated people
  of Jewish ancestry. Many of these people will point to the parable of Sodom
  and Gomorrah as a major reason against homosexuality when it is more about
  their strong desire for sex and prostitution. These people's strong insistence
  to force their will, even through lobbying to guarantee its passage as law,
  really shows their desire to show their opinions as being "greater than thou".

- The cases of union agents becoming violent is from the unions themselves
  supporting the violence internally, with the agents being specifically
  instructed to use whatever means possible to bring people into unions, even by
  force. Several corporations have tried to rid themselves of the union
  requirement for their employees through elections, a relatively standard
  process. Conversely, many union officials will rig these elections and/or use
  voter suppression, often through intimidation, to try to tilt the election in
  their favor. This, combined with constant legal threats and pressure and
  lobbying in Congress, is definitely a show of their greed and lust for power.
  This clearly demonstrates their desire to be "greater than thou".

- Obama's targeting of specific groups through the IRS, with one notable example
  being Tea Party supporters, is a fairly obvious example of one area his
  administration tries to prove itself as "greater than thou".

- Corporations fighting to be able to control bandwidth between them and
  specific sites displays a very significant degree of corporate greed among
  those, one of which will drive many Internet businesses into the ground and
  reduce the usage of the Internet. This corporate greed will end up turning on
  them and driving them to the ground as a result. ISPs apparently aren't
  looking that far, and their corporate greed is a case of them wanting to be
  able to show themselves as "greater than thou".

- Several people are trying to encourage Internet censorship in Congress, with
  ISPs fighting for one reason, but the Congresspeople are fighting for another.
  Members of Congress in support of this are interested in the ability to
  control what people see and don't see. This would give them enormous amounts
  of power and control over the people, and it would also enable them to dictate
  to the people what is right and wrong. Hitler convinced the people that hating
  the Jews was the right thing to do because of his own personal quote: "Make
  the lie big, make it simple, keep saying it, and eventually people will
  believe it." Obama, his administration, and Congress all know that they would
  have this ability and power if they could censor the Internet. The desire of
  Obama and much of the Senate and House really boils down to the desire for
  many of them to prove themselves as "greater than thou".

- The pro-choice lobby has been fighting for a while to make abortion a right
  for all, and they also want to make sure all insurers can and will cover it if
  a person wants to have one. They don't care that they are also catching
  religious institutions staunchly against it, including many Christian
  charities and the Catholic Church. Most of these groups have actually dropped
  their insurance coverage of their clergy as a result of this. This forcing of
  beliefs upon other people is wrong on many levels, and is a prolific example
  of the "greater than thou" attitude.

- Obama, the White house, and a few influential Congresspeople support the NSA
  and its Internet surveillance, including of millions of American citizens.
  This goes right along with the Presidential and Congressional support of
  Internet censorship as to why this shows those groups' desire to be "greater
  than thou".

The common root cause of all these conflicts, just as plenty of past ones, is
the desire to be greater, and in many of these cases, it is the desire to try to
become "God". I mean this in the most religiously agnostic way possible, and I
mean that entirely symbolically. People want power, some more than others, and
some will only stop if they are "king of the world". Some know they shouldn't go
trying to own everyone's lives, and they are usually the most enjoyed. These
people also leave the most permanent marks on humanity for years to come.

- Jesus is still honored two thousand years after his death.

- The writers of the Magna Carta left a mark on the structure and purpose of
  government almost a thousand years later.

- The members of the Protestant Reformation forced people to reconsider their
  beliefs and not to blindly follow tradition or believe what the majority
  believes.

- The Founding Fathers of our country are still remembered and honored
  internationally to this day, most notably George Washington.

- Frederick Douglass had been almost to the Civil War era as Martin Luther King,
  Jr. was to the Civil Rights Era. He had helped make the North in almost full
  opposition against slavery, while simultaneously keeping both supporters and
  opponents of his teachings from getting too violent. He was a former slave
  himself, but even captivated plantation owners. He had also kickstarted the
  beginnings of the women's rights movement.

- Gandhi has been known internationally for a while for his actions in lessening
  the strength of the caste system in India and reducing government oppression
  against the people, especially against the lower caste.

- Martin Luther King, Jr. has been known internationally for years for his work
  in making the Civil Rights cause actually become successful.

- Ronald Reagan and his views are still being praised internationally to this
  day, not only Reaganomics, but also his diplomatic ability and decision-making
  in both foreign and domestic affairs.

The closest we have to this kind of person is either Pope Francis or Rand Paul,
but these aren't the average people. These people made the world better.

---

There are also the people who think they are better than everyone else, and were
intent on ruining other people's lives just to make sure of it. Adolf Hitler was
a relatively famous example of it, but he is far from the worst (and not the
most psychotic, either). Here are some examples of people throughout history
who tried to prove that they are "greater than thou".

- King George III, many of his appointed governors, and his actions almost
  solely are responsible for us declaring independence from imperial Britain.

- "Bloody Mary" (Mary I) of England had burned any person who even vaguely
  disagreed with her at the stake as soon as she had found out. Adolf Hitler was
  not this indiscriminate with the Holocaust.

- Saddam Hussein had not only invaded countries for no reason, but one way he
  took his frustration out was on people with poison gas.

- Mao Zedong had killed more people in his 31 year reign in China than both
  Hitler and Stalin had combined—almost twice that total. If you do the
  math, this comes out to a higher killing rate than Hitler had in his six-year
  reign.

- Russian Tsar Ivan IV was named "Ivan the Terrible". In a trip of his to
  Ukraine, he sentenced a thousand people to be executed daily.

- Henrich Himmler was the person that orchestrated many of Hitler's killings,
  and he headed the Gestapo, the German national police. He was the primary one
  encouraging many of the torturing and killing techniques, such as using
  cyanide. He was the primary architect of the Holocaust, with little
  intervention or help from Hitler.

This is a rather brief summary of the effects of the desire to be "God". These
people had that desire, and they were able to get significant power to elevate
themselves. I am by no means an anarchist, but this is the direction many people
in our government are trying to send us in.

The second person in the list, "Bloody Mary", and Adolf Hitler were more extreme
cases of why hatred against anyone is costly. The Nazi supporters of Hitler's
reign saw the Jews as less than human, much like the stronger proponents of
segregation in the Civil Rights Era. People still hold this mentality against
gays, and that is where all the violence comes from. This is why that needs to
end. This is why gays should be at least partially respected. Humility settled
the women's suffrage movement. Humility settled the Civil Rights conflict.
Humility will settle the anti-gay sentiment.

Internet surveillance and censorship is standard in China. They have no right to
even protest the most mundane things. If a person says anything that is in
contrast to the government, he or she is severely risking death. If we end up
with such here, we will fall into the same pit they already are in.

Union violence isn't new. These conflicts have been around since before the days
Franklin D. Roosevelt was in office. Opponents have been beaten for decades now.
In some of the coal towns in the 1800s, some of the children were effectively
brainwashed through the curriculum that unionization was good for the community,
even though the unions were why several workers couldn't assemble to try to push
for better wages, etc. These workers were limited by their unions, with their
wages being cut to next to nothing with fees, apparently for living expenses,
etc. that cost about half the price they were paying. Unions used manipulation
and the same tactics used by Hitler to breed hatred against the Jews to keep
people and companies under their influence and power. They have been using
violence and intimidation for decades against companies. Although not recently,
unions have been known to in the past bring hit squads into factories to enforce
their unionism. Roosevelt had simply subdued some of those activities while he
was in office ‒ before and after, plenty of things happened "behind
closed doors".

This is getting plenty of media coverage as something so "outrageous", but that
has been a reality for much longer. I'm not trying to paint it as insignificant
‒ it's not ‒ but this violence and intimidation needs to end at
some point. The sooner this disappears, the sooner a very major issue with
society dies.

Abortion in the sense being debated in society today is defined by Merriam
Webster (def. 1b) as: "the termination of a pregnancy after, accompanied by,
resulting in, or closely followed by the death of the embryo or fetus: as
induced expulsion of a human fetus". To summarize: the first part means the
pregnancy ends with the fetus dying, and the second part is almost the medical
definition of birth. Medically, the requirement is that the baby does not
survive the (usually) premature birth (in more mundane terms). One thing to note
is that the medical field does not draw a significant distinction between the
natural, involuntary one, normally termed as a miscarriage, and the artificial,
voluntary one, that most people consider to be an abortion.

It doesn't take a rocket scientist to tell that if a fetus dies from an
intentionally ended pregnancy, then the death was intentional. An intentionally
caused death is by definition intentional killing. Thus, by this simple logic,
abortion is the act of killing a fetus before it was born. Is it right to kill
anyone? An abortion ends up with a fetus killed, a fetus that hasn't had a
chance to become a baby.

Also, abortion clinics are becoming known to try to cover up botched abortions.
If the mother ends up having a live baby instead of a dead one, then clearly the
medicine given to kill the baby inside did not work. In that case, the abortion
is botched. The baby born is then whisked away as quickly as possible to be
killed out of sight of the woman. Another thing that has been getting out is the
lack of sterility in the environment; for example, unclean tools are used on a
regular basis in several abortion clinics.

Abortion is another issue that needs to be finished quickly. The Roman Catholic
Church made up their mind officially just after 400 AD. I'm not trying to sound
self-righteous here myself, but please use some logic before making up your
mind.

Another thing I have covered already, but is worth restating, is that the
pro-choice lobby is even willing to try to force religious institutions to cover
for people who want abortions, even when it is against their beliefs. They try
to manipulate teens to have abortions when they get pregnant, even on rare
occasion by intimidating them or their parents. This doesn't really show as
pro-choice. This is definitely them trying to forcefully prove to everyone that
they are right and "greater than thou".

You see all the ways this "holier than thou"/"greater than thou" attitude can
drive a society into shackles? It drove many societies throughout history into
the ground. It got Gandhi shot. It got Martin Luther King shot. It caused the
Holocaust. It drove our country to existence. It caused the Civil War. It
created riots. It caused hostility. It gave reason for evil. This attitude
‒ this "holier than thou"/"greater than thou" attitude ‒ is evil.
Lose the attitude, lose the evil. Learn humility, learn good. Gain acceptance,
gain perfection.

You learn to accept that you aren't always right, you learn to see the world for
what it is. It has evil in it, but let good win. Good requires acceptance, even
acceptance that you aren't always right and acceptance that not everyone will
agree with you. Do not force your beliefs upon anyone. One of the easiest ways
to anger an atheist is to constantly drill into him or her that God exists. An
easy way to anger a commercial farmer is why he doesn't buy his vegetables and
meat at some supermarket or Walmart.

---

Don't judge, for you will never be perfect. You will make a mistake at some
point. You will lie at some point. You will be wrong at some point. Why judge if
you can and likely will make a mistake?

So, don't fight to elevate yourself. The abolitionists had, and it led to the
Civil War. The blacks had after Martin Luther King died, and it led to mass
riots. Don't fight to elevate yourself. Fight to bring those who have back to
the ground. People elevate themselves with the "greater than thou" attitude, and
that only leads to evil. Bring them back to the ground; they can do less evil.

If you draw anything out of this whole essay, take this advice:

Don't fight to elevate yourself ‒ that is why our society is in shackles.
You can be wrong, just as your opponents can be. Fight to put people in their
place ‒ that can and will resolve virtually any conflict in the world.
