## My website's source

These are all the client files. And a simple guide to my code structure:

- blog.ignore/

  These are where all my blog posts live. The metadata + a short preview
  generated by scripts/compile-markdown-preview.js is pulled out and compiled,
  and the results for all files aggregated into dist/blog.json (which doesn't
  exist in this directory). The contents are stripped and written to
  dist/blog/*post*.md. The server does an equivalent action, but recompiles
  the data on demand.

  The .ignore suffix hides it from the dev server and build system without
  separate means of access.

- pic.jpg, original-pic.ignore.jpg

  Photos of my pretty face. The .ignore.\* suffix on the latter prevents it from
  showing up after compilation or being seen by the dev server.

- \*.mixin.pug, \*.mixin.styl, etc.

  These are merely helper files that don't make it to the public site. If it's
  not meant to be a page or user-loaded stylesheet, it's not loaded. Except for
  the global styles, any of the mixins have their stylesheet also named this
  way.

- page.mixin.pug, page.styl

  These are the general templates for all the pages on this site. It made
  consistency magically easy to accomplish, while also automagically marking the
  current selected page in the header as a class as well as filling everything
  else. The page.styl file is loaded globally purely to benefit from caching,
  as it contains more CSS than even the blog.

- common.mixin.styl

  These contain most of the global color scheme for the site. Better to have
  this properly isolated from the rest of the site.

- highlight-style.mixin.styl

  This contains the stylesheet for code run through [Highlight.js][hljs].

- *page-name*.pug, *page-name*.styl, *page-name*.js

  The rest of the site is separated into components like these (or their
  .mixin.\* variants). Not all pages have all of these (e.g. most do not use a
  single line of JavaScript), but this is merely for consistency and ease of
  knowing where to look when problems come up.

[hljs]: https://highlightjs.org/
